#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\begin_preamble
\date{}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 1cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth -2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation 0bp
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
markboth{The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, March 2015}{}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
Crushing Candy Crush - An AI Project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Daniel Hadar & Oren Samuel
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begin{abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this work, we propose several search methods in order to provide a solving
 meachnism for a general Match-3 game, such as Candy-Crush, in its simplest
 form.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
end{abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
What are Match-3 Games?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On March 26th 2014, the mobile game development company King Digital Entertainme
nt became a publicly traded company, valued at over $7 Billion.
 Their most popular game (and the one that brought in most of their capital)
 was Candy Crush Saga, a Match-3 Puzzle video game, available for play on
 Facebook and on mobile platforms.
 This was another milestone in the evolution of Match-3 video games (a subset
 of the more general Tile Matching category of games), which finds its roots
 in the well-known Tetris (1985), goes through games like Yoshi’s Cookie
 (1992) and Bejewled (2001), and is still present today, as King Digital
 releases new levels for Candy Crush Saga on a weekly basis.
 Match-3 is family of single-player video games; The basic, common elements
 are a game board (usually square or rectangular in shape) and bricks of
 different types, arranged in a matrix formation on the board.
 In some games, the bricks change their location independently as time passes;
 in others, the bricks remain still until the player interferes.
 The types of moves a player can perform differ between games - moving,
 swapping and rotating of a single brick or a cluster of bricks all appear
 in some implementations of Match-3 games.
 The player’s goal, however, is mostly the same - to identify patterns in
 the bricks’ arrangement across the board, and create clusters of bricks
 of the same type.
 Creating a cluster makes it disappear from the board and awards the player
 with an amount of points proportional to the cluster’s size.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
GemGem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to to research the general Match-3 category of games, we used a
 basic open-source Candy Crush Saga clone called GemGem.
 The version presented here is a version we modified for the purpose of
 this paper; The original version can be found online
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "http://inventwithpython.com/blog/2011/06/24/new-game-source-code-gemgem-a-bejeweled-clone/"
target "http://inventwithpython.com/blog/2011/06/24/new-game-source-code-gemgem-a-bejeweled-clone/"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
The Rules
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In GemGem, the basic setting is a square checkered board.
 Each cell in the board contains a 'gem' of a certain color.
 The board's side size and number of unique gems types can be configured
 by the player: board size can be set in the range 
\begin_inset Formula $4..8$
\end_inset

; the number of gems can be set in the range 
\begin_inset Formula $4..7$
\end_inset

.
 A player's move consists of choosing two adjacent gems to switch between.
 We say that a switch is 
\shape italic
valid
\shape default
 if and only if it produces a board where there is at least one 
\shape italic
sequence
\shape default
 - a vertical or horizontal chain of 
\begin_inset Formula $3$
\end_inset

 or more consecutive gems of the same color.
 An invalid move is not allowed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once a valid move is performed, the following process is initiated:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The gems in the created sequence(s) are cleared, rendering their cells empty.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The gems which reside above the empty cells are pulled down in a gravitational
 manner, filling the empty cells.
 The fallen gems’ original cells become empty.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
New gems 
\shape italic
appear
\shape default
 (i.e “fall down”) in the now empty cells.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
If the process creates new gem sequences, return to step 1.
 Otherwise, wait for the player's next move.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

chain reaction
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, i.e a series of 2 or more such iterations, is called a cascade.
 Once the the iteration process is finished, i.e there are no remaining sequences
 on the board, we say that the board is stable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Approach and Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Results
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Future Research
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
